Here's the contents of your disk:

A-Line.asm
	Examples of how to build words which use the A-line graphics
	primitives. These are much faster than VDI graphics routines.
	Handy for games or graphics. Shows how to use the assembler, too.

Addenda
	Additions and corrections to the manual.

Alarm.demo
	How to use the error alerts and how to create your own alert
	boxes.

APlane.fth
	A little 3D graphics demo. Requires the 'Trig.asm' file.

BIOS.use
	Additional docs for all the BIOS function calls.

BLKS>TXT.fth
	Is a program used to rescue any blocks files you have by converting
	them into text files.

Calls.demo
	Very simple examples of 'CALL' usage.

Drache.fth
	Simple dragon fractals. Shows recursion and local variables.

Exceptions.VDI
	Contains words which you can use for the 10 VDI functions that won't
	work with 'CALL'

FlowControl.fth
	Simple extensions that can be used for conditional compilation
	within a file.

Gebirge.fth
	Fractal mountains. Fun to play with the parameters. Uses recursion
	and local variables. Requires 'Trig.asm'. Shows that you can
	make no-window applications. Change 'quit' to 'bye', though, for
	an application.

GEMAES.use
	Additional docs on the use of the AES functions with 'CALL'.

GEMDOS.use
	Additional docs on the use of the DOS functions with 'CALL'.

GEMVDI.use
	Additional docs on the use of the VDI functions with 'CALL'.

GrafTrig.asm
	Fast integer trig suitable only for pixel graphics.

Handle.evt
	Shows how to do event-handling.

KLUDGE.RPN
	A historical document to show Forth newcomers what was traditionally
	offered with Forth systems as an assembler.

Mach2.PRG
	This is what you bought.

Mach2.RSC
	Has Mach2's system menu.

Menu.Example
	Shows how to install and use menus made with the RCS.

MenuExmp.RSC
	A menu tree made with the RCS and used in the menu demo.

NewAppl.fth
	Shows the simplest, windowed application you can make in Mach2.

NewMouse.fth
	Simple. Changes shape of mouse cursor.

NewTask.fth
	The fastest way to throw up a new task.

OpenFile.fth
	How to use the file selector box to open files. This is if you
	don't want to use the Forth word 'fSelect'.

Quadratic.fth
	Shows why we like local variables.

RamDisk.fth
	If you load this program into Mach2, it will create a ram disk
	installer program. When you run the installer, you'll have a ram
	disk.

READ_ME
	You already are.

Reflections.fth
	Just a pretty demo.

SaveAs.dlg
	How to create a resource by hand. This is the original file used
	to develop the 'Save As:' dialog box in the editor.

Sieve.asm
	How to right the sieve in assembly language.

Sieve.fth
	The Sieve. This is the Forth sieve, which solves the problem as
	a Forth programmer would. The Byte sieve is used to point out the
	biggest weakness of Forth, moving global data around in arrays.

Simple.evt
	How to write the simplest event-handler.

Sound.fth
	Shows how to make some simple sounds.

Spheres.fth
	You don't need trig to do 3-D graphics.

Synonyms.fth
	An extension which you can use to give another to name to any
	Forth word w/o adding code to the dictionary.

Tools.lcl
	Some extensions for building more tools for using local variables.

Trig.asm
	Extension file for adding integer trig functions. Not particularly
	easy to read.

Vectored.ext
	Some device drivers you could use for redirected I/O and how to
	install them.

View.fth
	A relic from the old days of the editor. Load it and type 'VIEW'
	to just view a file. Shows event-handling, calls, assembly, etc.

XBIOS.use
	Additional docs on how to use the XBIOS functions.
