This is SOKOBAN, modified by Robert Fischer

January 26, 1991:

Here are my changes to SOKOBAN:
	It now compiles on the ATARI ST with LynxLib, when the symbol ATARIST
		is #define'd to be 1.  With UNIX #define'd as 1, it should
		compile as it did before.
	If the environment variable USER is set, Sokoban takes its value
		as the user.  Otherwise, it Sokoban will ask for your name.
	You can now take back as many moves as you want.

To contact me:
    Robert Fischer \\80 Killdeer Rd \\Hamden, CT   06517   USA
    (203) 288-9599     fischer-robert@cs.yale.edu

Here's the original README file:

I saw this game first on a PC running MSDOS. I found the idea of the game so
clever, that I made up my mind to make it run with an ascii terminal using
curses so that we can play it on our MicroVAX/ULTRIX.

Along with this package there are alot of screen files describing the various
play levels. So what you need to do to install it on your own machine is:

-   Edit the header file sokoban.h to alter the given defines

You have to note the following restrictions

-   The screen files must be readable for everyone who should be able to play
    this game
-   The score file should have read/write permission only for the owner
    of the executable program. If you do so sokoban must run with setuid.

You can now compile it (just type 'make').
If compilation is succesful you must initialize the score file (just type
'sokoban -c'). If you have forgotten the password, examine sokoban.h.

There is no manual page. All you have to know when you first play the game is
the command '?'. This gives you one screenful of information.

After you have solved all the given screens (this will take a while) you will
find the game boring (sure you will). I hope there will be a lot of players who
will think out some new screens.
To test your own screens copy them to the screen directory (with a new level
number <nn>) and type sokoban -<nn>.

PLEASE DO SO AND POST NEW SCREENS TO THE NET.
OTHERWISE IT GETS BORING !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Comments are welcome.

Within Europe reply to astbe!ber

From other continents try to use ...!pyramid!tub!astbe!ber
   (otherwise it would be expensive)
