Hi,                                                        05/08/93

+- Disclaimer --- Disclaimer --- Disclaimer --- Disclaimer --- Disc
| REMEMBER! THIS PROGRAM COMES WITH ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY! IT    l
r MIGHT EASILY DAMAGE OR EVEN DESTROY YOUR SVGA MONITOR AND/OR    a
e COMPUTER! IT WILL MOST CERTAINLY DESTROY ANY MONITOR THAT       i
m DOES NOT HANDLE SVGA MODES!!! IF YOU RUN IT, YOU DO SO AT       m
i YOUR OWN RISK! I DO NOT GIVE ANY WARRANTY, NOT EVEN THE         e
a WARRANTY OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR         r
l PURPOSE!                                                        |
csiD --- remialcsiD --- remialcsiD --- remialcsiD --- remialcsiD -+

FS's handling of the Vsetmode()-system call has been changed; thus it
should cause even less compatibility problems then the old version.
Nevertheless, I might have missed something; so in case you discover any
strange effects when running FS, please report them immediately. Uwe
("rosebud") tells me, that FS works with NVDI, if you start NVDI first.
I cannot verify this, since I do not have NVDI (yet). Please drop me a
message, if there are any unexpected difficulties in gettings FS to work
under NVDI.

The range of valid resolutions has been extended up to 928x704@40Hz.
Special thanks to Harald ("equinoxe") for finding the improved video
settings!

All valid video modes are now stored in a global table. This allows for
easier expansion of new modes. FS will automatically measure the exact
vertical refresh rate, while you preview a video mode during setup.
Thus, if you added a new mode, you will be able to tell refresh rate
after previewing it...

There are three different ways of activating setup mode. If FS is
started and the preselected resolution equals 640x480 you will
automatically enter setup mode (this happens the very first time, you
start FS.PRG). Any time you press "S" while FS is being installed
(usually from within the AUTO folder), the setup mode can be entered on
demand. Finally, you can change the settings by starting FS.PRG while
FalconScreen is already activ; this will allow you to change FS's
parameters without rebooting, nonetheless you might end up with strange
system behavior --- GEM just does not expect you to change its variables
while running :-)

Regardless of the resolution you started FS from, setup mode will always
provide you with a preview feature of the current parameters: just press
any shift key; this features simplifies finding the optimal video
resolution for your monitor (besides it determines the exact vertical
refresh rate --- as opposed to the estimate you are prompted with before
previewing).

FS will check if there is already an active instance of FS in the
system; thus it will only install once. Nevertheless, old versions of FS
did not have this check. If you happen to run more than one copy of FS
at a time (e.g. you forgot to remove the old version), you might run
into serious trouble (the video resolution differs from the resolution
that VDI knows about). Thus, if you cannot get a working version of FS,
please make sure, that there is no old copy, that is accidentally
started.

I am running FS on an F030/14 with TOS 4.01 in ROM and I do not have any
problems neither with nor without MTOS. The initial screen resolution
while booting is 640x480x1bit and the order of the AUTO-programs does
not seem to make any difference. If you cannot get FS to run, try to
remove resident programs in order to find out what is causing your
problems. If you can find a way that enables me to reproduce your
problems, please send me a message. BTW, NVDI supposedly works with FS
is started first --- so please reorder or AUTO-folder programs
accordingly.

If you have any comments, suggestions, improved register values etc.
please send e-mail. The improvement of this program really depends on
how much info I can get about the video chip...

Since I do not have access to any "plain" RGB monitor (all monitors, I
can possibly get hold of are SVGA multisyncs), I cannot really find any
settings for RGB monitors. If you happen to find useful values, please
send me a message. I might think of working on resolutions with
different amounts of colors myself, but I am not sure, if will do this
any time soon.

Apart from FS.PRG and the source code, this archive contains two other
programs. VIDEO.PRG is a program for interactive manipulation of the
video registers; it is very straight forward and should not be too
difficult to use. SCRPROT.PRG is a MiNT/MTOS aware screen-protector.
Just put it into your AUTO-folder after MiNT has been booted. It will
activate after 2min without any user actions (warning, I am unable to
detect mouse clicks --- just mouse movements and keyboard events are
detected!). You can always deactivate the screen protector by killing
its demon task.

These programs are still beta-versions! (I do not know, if there will
ever be a non-beta version, since the risk of destroying an non-SVGA
monitor by activating this program is very high...) You are allowed to
redistribute this program as long as you do not charge anybody for it
*and* as long as you make absolutely certain that whoever has this
program knows, it is a beta release! These programs are postcardware, so
if you like them, send a postcard to:
	Markus Gutschke
	Papenbusch 31
	4400 M"unster
	W-Germany

For further information refer to the source code ("Use the source,
Luke!"). The C modul (FS.C) contains some comments that might help you
to detect what is causing your problems...

So long

Markus


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Markus Gutschke | Internet: srb242@math.uni-muenster.de
Papenbusch 31   |           Markus.Gutschke@obelix.uni-muenster.de
4400 M"unster   |-------------------------------------------------------------
W-Germany       | "Death --- no excuse for not working!" 
                |                          ('Supreme Being' in 'Time Bandits')
