				France, the 6th December 1991

		Yo Boys !
	
 So finally I made it. If you are now reading this, that means that
I've released this version of my soundtrack routine. Everybody in France
is now giving money for the Telethon, what about giving you the best 
soundtrack replay done on my old ST. 
"The best ??" I hear you ask. Yes sir ! This routine takes 95 raster
lines at 16 KHZ in fullscreen, that is to say at least 5 less raster
lines than the best from ST-CONNEXION. And this routine is made for any
soundtrack module, there are no frequency tables. 
Message to Marlon : FOETUS RULZ !

In fact this routine is based upon a routine published in a french 
magazine called ST-MAG, this routine was taking all the processor
time at 14 Khz.

To say all the truth, I think that ST-CONNEXION are still the best
in soundtrack as they were the first to do all the research in order
to play a simple Amiga module. But the guys from ST-CONNEXION all worked
together on their soundtrack routine. 
I started to code this shit this summer in august. 6 months for me, three
years for ST-CONNEXION, what lazy guys !
 
You should find on this floppy disk :

	- FULL4.S : fulltracker, the sound is strange, I don't know why.
	- SND15.S : the 16KHZ soundtrack routine in interrupt. Better
	 sound than in fullscreen. (8/12/91 : no more true !)

	- some others files : a module, volume table, replay table
			logo picture

	- 2 sources to convert modules : in this sources the equal
	   called 'ecart' stands for the length of byte to be added
	   at the end of the instruments to enable VBL loop test.
	 	   ALL*.s
		
		
	
The player itself with effects is not fully optimized, I don't care.
If you improve this source, please be kind, send it back to me.

As I think that this disk will be spread a lot, I'd like to thanks
DELTA FORCE for not putting my screen in their ICC #2 DEMO. HEY , 
NEW MODE my fulltrack with spectrum 512 pictures was not good enough
for The UNION ?? !! I'm waiting for The Union to beat this soundtrack
routine !  AH AH !!! No offense boys !

I'm supposed to explain you how to use this source, sorry I'm fed up
and with no explanation, lamers won't be able to use it. (Hello Alex !)

Thanks to Benoit Pasquereau for the replay table from the DST 2.
Thanks to St Connexion for bringing us the soundtrack from Amiga.
Thanks to Keyfrens for some many wonderful tunes.
Thanks to J.C M. for good advice !
Thanks to myself for drawing the Prism logo for the FULL4.S  .


	This was the present from PRISM
	for 1991 Xmas and for the new year.

			God bless you,	
				Terence.
				

contact adresse : 
	
	ARNAUD LIBEYRE
	8 AV. DU CENTRE
	78230 LE PECQ
              FRANCE
             
Write to this adress, as I, Terence, have no time to write (except to
female fans !......................) 


