YTalk Make Procedure:

    To restore the Makefile to its original state, run:

	make start

    If wish to support the X11 interface, edit the configuration at
    the top of the 'Imakefile' file then run:

	xmkmf 
	make
    
    If you do not have "xmkmf" on your system, then you cannot support
    X11 through ytalk at this time.  Ask your system administrator to
    install "xmkmf" (it stands for "X Make Makefile").

    If you do not have X11 installed on your system, or you do not
    wish to support the X11 interface, then edit the configuration at
    the top of the 'Makefile' file then run:

	make

The resulting executable program will be named "ytalk".

If you ever go back and change some configuration parameters at the
top of Imakefile or Makefile, you should run 'make clean' before running
'xmkmf' and/or 'make' again.  This will ensure that everything recompiles.

A manpage will automatically be built.  It will be named "ytalk.cat".
You can read the manual page by running:

	more ytalk.cat

If you make changes to this source code or if you have any ideas for
neat new features, _PLEASE_ mail me and let me know about it.  Chances
are I'll incorporate your ideas/changes into the next version and put a
great big "thank you" note to you in the documentation and source
code.  If you do change something or add features, and you intend to
give a copy to a friend, please make sure _your_ name appears somewhere
in the documentation so that _I_ don't get reams of mail or bug reports
about features I didn't know existed... :-)

If you have questions or suggestions, I'd be happy to hear from you
at this email address:

    ytalk@austin.eds.com

---- PATCH LEVEL 02

  1. Remove #elif directive, patch by Pete Wenzel.
  2. Recognize if party is refusing messages, thanks to J. Adam Hawkes.
  3. Linux support, thanks to Thilo Wunderlich.
  4. Port to AIX 3.1+.
  5. Add -s option to start in a shell, thanks to Mark Musone.
  6. Fix various error messages.
  7. Fix possible obscure bug in socket.c.

---- PATCH LEVEL 01

  1. Forcibly reset the scrolling region after a shell exits.
  2. Handle a local X resize while in a shell.
  3. Repair the password entry lookup stuff.
  4. Character-wrap to next line if word-wrap is disabled.
  5. Solaris 2.* support, patch by Magnus Hammerin.
  6. Aside messages in X, patch by Jonas Yngvesson.
  7. Fix X support, patch by Carl Edman.
  8. Option -x to disable X from the command line, thanks to John Vanderpool.
  9. Ctrl-L or ctrl-R to redraw screen, thanks to Shih-Chen Huang.
 10. Fix bizarre WINCH bug in exec.c.
 11. Handle 64-bit machines, thanks to Andrew Myers.
 12. Implement raw/cooked curses -- fixes 8-bit/parity problems with some
     terminals and allows ytalk to be suspended.  Thanks to Duncan Sinclair.
 13. System ytalkrc file, thanks to Evan McLean.
 14. Place user's full name in title bar, thanks to Evan McLean.
 15. Better imake support, thanks to Carl Edman.
 16. Installation features for make.
 17. Fix X resource database calls, patch by Andreas Stolcke.
 18. Fix cross-platform problems, thanks to Larry Schwimmer.

