KCSMPTE.BAS is a T-Basic program that converts between
measures/steps/beats and SMPTE or absolute time.  It has one major
advantage over similar programs like MUSICALC:  It will take into account
time signature changes (SM events) and tempo changes (TM, AC, and DC
events) when doing its calculations.

As of now, KCSMPTE works only in track mode and all the aforementioned
events must be in track one (which is where they should be anyway).

Unfortunately I don't know how to get the Phantom's start time from
T-Basic so you'll need to enter it manually (with the "Start time" menu
selection).  The program will remember this time even after going back to
KCS, as long as you always use the "To KCS" option under the "Quit" menu. 
If you quit back to T-Basic, then run KCSMPTE again, the start time will be
lost.

To figure out the SMPTE time at a particular bar/beat/step, select
"Smpte" from the menu, and enter the appropriate numbers.  Leaving a field
blank is equivalent to entering "1", so to find the SMPTE time at bar 4,
beat 1, step 1, just enter "4" under "Bar".

You may want to add some bars at the beginning of the piece.  To
calculate a new SMPTE start time, enter negative numbers representing the
time you wish to add.  The program will look at the very first step of
track 1, and use any TM event it finds in its calculations.  The program
will do the same thing with SM events _if_ you answer "Trk.1" to the alert
box (this is the default).  I made this selectable in case you are using
bar 1 as a pickup bar.  If there are no TM or SM events on the first step
of track 1 (or there are SM events there but you select "Env." from the
alert box), the program will use the current tempo and steps/measure
settings in the KCS environment page to "look backwards" and figure out a
new start time.

When entering the bar, beat, and step, I only check to see that the
number you enter under "step" isn't larger than the current steps/beat
setting in the KCS environment.  What this means is that _you_ are
responsible for entering legal values for the other two fields!

To find the bar, beat and step of a SMPTE time, select "Meas-Bt-St" and
enter the appropriate numbers.  Leaving a field blank here is equivalent
to entering "0".

