
                              INSTALLATION

This is version 2.1 of the zoo archiver.  It includes improved compression,
better online help, VAX/VMS file timestamp preservation, faster
uncompression, and other features that are described in the accompanying
manual ("zoo.1" or "zoo.man").

The supplied makefile contains a number of targets for selected systems.
Type "make help" for help from the makefile.  Also, for VAX/VMS
systems, see the file vmsbugs.doc for VMS-specific information.

The file ``options.h'' defines preprocessor symbols for the various sys-
tems.  In most cases, given a reasonably powerful C compiler and
library, you will be able to find a combination of options that will
work.  Documentation for these options is in the file ``options.doc''.

Other machine-dependent code and definitions are in machine.h,
machine.c, and portable.h.  Also, the amount of memory used for some
arrays can be customized by defining symbols that are described and used
in zoomem.h.

The low-level input/output routines are in portable.c.  In most cases
these will not need to be modified.

On machines with older (Intel-style) architectures zoo requires the
large memory model.  Compiling with the small memory model will
cause problems.

EXTRACT-ONLY VERSION.  For a new system, your first concern should be
the ability to extract and list zoo archives.  For this purpose try com-
piling booz (which stands for Barebones Ooz) (currently version 2.0),
which is small and portable.  It is distributed separately from zoo.

                                KNOWN BUGS

1.  The filter mode of zoo 2.1 appears to compresses and uncompresses
correctly, but often reports an "Uncompression error" even when
uncompression was successful.

2.  It is possible for zoo 2.1 to fail to detect an out of disk space
situation when adding files to a zoo archive.

3.   The MS-DOS version of zoo 2.1 may unnecessarily report an error
when extracting a file to standard output.  Normal file extraction
to disk is not affected.

These bugs are expected to be fixed in the next release.

                                     -- Rahul Dhesi 1991/07/07
