Hi there!

It was a sunny day in early January. Sunny but not hot, a little chilly
actually. Fucking cold would more than likely be the word!
It was on this day ( 93/01/04 ) that I decided to release my polygon
routine as a shareware program. I don't really know why I did it, maybe
I got struck by a wave of kindness and felt like sharing my work with
the humanity? But anyone who knows me would say that I lied if I said
so. No, the idea is to get every lamer in the world to look up to me
and think that of me as a really great guy ( hehe ).

And now to the technical part...
The routine is called "Xope", and have the current version number of 2.01.
This is the very same routine that I used in the "Grotesque" demo! I don't
know if it is the fastest polygon routine on the STE or not, but it can
perform some amazing stuff. This version is NOT bug free... And I don't
know if I will make another version either. The known buggs are:

 The polygons can look strange in the corners on STE.
 The polygons ends one line early on both STE and TT.
 Some very large polygons that just touches the borders, can disappear!
 The Z cut funktion is kind of kinky...

This version of Xope works perfectly well on the STE and the TT. The routine
will make a total bomb out on a ST. The routine is assembled and packed,
and is a binary file wich you include in your source. Xope will self-
relocate when you start it up.

Well as I said in the beginning, Xope is shareware. That means that if you
can copy it freely without any permission. But, if you use Xope for a
commercial purpose, then send me a donation. Also if possible, a copy of the
program would be fun to have. Xope can be freely used in non-commercial
purpose without any donations sent. But please state somewere in the program
that the polygon routine is Xope, and that Micael Hildenborg is the writer
of the polygon routine.

Donations can be sent to: 

 
 Micael Hildenborg
 Kalenderv. 6
 415 11 Gothenburg
 Sweden
 
 
That is also the address that I can be reached on.

    Greetings,

        Micael Hildenborg.
  
  