
Welcome to SERIAL.CPX !

This CPX is intended to replace the MODEM.CPX by Atari, which is far 
outdated nowadays. It should work with all control panel servers,
like Xcontrol, Zcontrol and COPS. Note Zcontrol and COPS have buggy
EDIT field handlers, you thus will notice minor quirks when editing 
buffer sizes.

The CPX lets you choose a serial port to be configured with the upper
most button. If you change it, configuration of the former port is
saved internally and applied when the window is closed or the OK button
is clicked. Note LAN and Serial 2 are NOT independent ports, if your
machine has both, they'll appear as Ser.2/LAN, and you can use the
`Use LAN Port' switch in the Drivers section to select which is to be
used.

Use the corresponding buttons on the Parameter page to set the baudrate,
bits per character, parity, stop bits, and flow control. In the lower
right corner it is shown if the displayed port is supported by RSVF
(HSMODEM).

Switch to the Driver page to see the buffer sizes. If the port is RSVF
supported, or is a standard port under MiNT, the buffer size is edit-
able, so new buffer sizes can be configured. The DTR button shows the
state of the DTR line, inverted means DTR is active. You can change
the state too. If the port has no DTR line, the button is disabled.
Click the Flush button to clear the buffers. Currently only the input
buffers get flushed. If you click and hold the mouse button above the
Break button, a break is sent. This state continues until the button
is released, break is reset then.

The port that is displayed when the window is closed, or the OK button
clicked, is set as the new actual channel. The actual channel is a now
outdated concept that allows to run old software that assumes there is
only one serial port. When the CPX is reopened, correspondingly the
actual channel is shown as default.

The CPX uses the SERSOFTST convention to deal with parameters whenever 
possible. If it is not possible, MAPTAB functions are used. Virtually
no settings are done directly by accessing the hardware.

Have fun

Peter Rottengatter
perot@pallas.amp.uni-hannover.de
http://www.stud.uni-hannover.de/~perot
