Subject: ps2txt version 2.1

Due to popular request, here is my new version of this utility.  This version
supports regular postscript files via Iqbal Qazi's original algorithm, and
files generated by dvitps via my algorithm and the -dvi option.  If you're not
sure whether or not to use -dvi, try it both ways; the difference is marked.

improvements over the original:
-- you no longer need to use the filename "-" for stdin.  stdin is the default.
-- -dvi option added
-- cleaned up the code and control structures a *lot*
-- comments!  what a concept.

the following may be compiled with cc.  no special options are needed that i
know of.  -o is nice, however...

Comments/suggestions to cloister@u.washington.edu


From the source file:
------------------------------ cut here ------------------------------
/*  Jason Black, Feb 22 1992

Input can come from stdin, from '-' or from a file named on the command line:
Flags: -dvi for use with dvitps PostScript files.
Usage:
                ps2txt [-dvi] [-] [input_file.ps]

ps2txt.c extracts strings from a PostScript file.  This version has been 
modified to correctly deal with the oddities of PostScript files generated by 
dvi-to-PostScript converters, so if you keep this and the original program 
around, you might want to rename one of them.

VERSION:  1.1	Fixed bug dealing with comments.
	  1.2	By popular demand:  put spaces between strings.
	  2.0   Fixed most problems of extraneous spaces and newlines
		between strings.
		added support for the ligatures ff, fi, fl, ffi, & ffl.
		re-designed the control structures, and otherwise cleaned
		up the code.
	  2.1   Put Qazi's original algorithm back in, and added -dvi flag to
	        use my more specific algorithm.  Also by popular demand.
		Re-wrote the command line parsing yet again.
		
History:  Modified Qazi's program on Feb. 18 1992 so that it could do dvitps
          files well.  Posted to alt.sources.  Got feedback requesting support
	  for regular PostScript files as well.  Retrieved Qazi's original
	  source code, and put it back in on Feb. 22 1992.  While the original
	  program concept and source code is from Iqbal Qazi, this version
	  has had enough modifications that I am claiming it as my own.  Qazi's
	  sections are well marked if you want to see them.

*/

