
                            Motorola

                   DSP56ADC16 EVALUATION BOARD

                  Information on Sample Files
                     (From the User Manual)


3.2 SUPPLIED SOFTWARE FOR USE WITH THE DSP56000ADS BOARD

Included with the DSP56ADC16 EVB is a floppy disk
containing a library of useful routines for using and
evaluating the DSP56ADC16. Source code (.ASM extension) is
included for exemplary drivers and I/O routines along with
the .LOD hex files for loading and execution on the
DSP56000ADS board.  Additionally, the library contains a
.LOD hex file for an FFT spectrum analyzer program for
critical analysis of the DSP56ADC16 performance.  With
this library of programs, a DSP56000ADS system, and the
DSP56ADC16 EVB the user has a complete setup for testing,
using, and evaluating the DSP56ADC16 oversampling analog-
to-digital converter chip.

For loading and running programs please refer to the
"DSP56000ADS Application Development System User's Manual"
supplied with your DSP56000ADS kit.  All programs supplied
with the DSP56ADC16 EVB start at program memory address
p:$0040.  To execute the programs simply type the command
"go p:$40" on your DSP56000ADS host computer (followed by
carriage return)after loading the desired program.  To
stop the program and return control to the user simply
type "force break" (followed by a carriage return).


3.2.1 GENERAL POLLED I/O LOOP (loopevb.asm)

File "loopevb.asm" is the assembly language source code
for an example driver for the DSP56ADC16 EVB.  This
particular driver is for simple polled operation.  The
driver first initializes the DSP56001 SSI peripheral to
operate with the DSP56ADC16 and the D/A converter serial
interfaces. After initialization the program loops
indefinitely by first reading the SSI RX register at
$X:FFEF in the DSP56001 and then writing the SSI TX
register at $X:FFEF.  Analog data appearing on BNC2 and
BNC3 is digitized and then converted back to analog and
will appear on BNC1.  This program serves as an exemplary
routine for a polled I/O device driver.  This program is
also a simple system "quick check" to verify that the
DSP56ADC16 EVB and DSP56000ADS are functioning properly.  

3.2.2 GENERAL INTERRUPT I/O LOOP (intioevb.asm)

File "intioevb.asm" is the assembly language source code
for an example driver featuring interrupt service routines
for I/O.  This routine first initializes the DSP56001 SSI
peripheral to operate with interrupts enabled.  The
routine then sits in a loop jumping to itself, waiting for
an SSI interrupt to occur.  The user can substitute an
application program in place of this jump loop.  When an
interrupt occurs the interrupt service handler will first
read the SSI RX register, which contains digital output
from the DSP56ADC16, followed immediately by a write to
the SSI TX register to send this data to the D/A
converter.  In this routine only one interrupt is used,
the SSI RX interrupt, because the SSI receiver and
transmitter operate synchronously. Therefore, whenever the
SSI RX register is full the SSI TX register is guaranteed
to be empty.  As in the polled routine above, the
DSP56ADC16 EVB will pass analog signals from the BNC2/BNC3
jacks to the BNC1 jack in an analog "loop through"
fashion.



3.2.3 SIN(X)/X CORRECTION FIR FILTER I/O ROUTINE
(sxxevb.asm)

The purpose of this routine is to provide a SIN(X)/X
correction filter for the zero order hold effect in the
D/A converter.  This effect causes the D/A converter to
look like a lowpass filter with a SIN(X)/X response.  This
program is an analog "loop through" program like the
programs described in 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 above.  The incoming
signal is digitized by the DSP56ADC16 and then sent
through a 50 tap FIR (finite impulse response) filter
routine in the DSP56001.  The output of the FIR filter is
then passed to the D/A converter.  The effects of SIN(X)/X
droop are most noticeable at frequencies approaching the
DSP56ADC16 output sample rate divided by two.  The user
can learn about zero order hold effects of D/A converters
by first observing the system frequency response by using
one of the programs previously described and then re-
observing the system frequency response while running the
SIN(X)/X correction FIR filter described here.


3.2.4 FFT EVALUATION PROGRAM (fftssi.lod)

This program is a software "spectrum analyzer".  The
routine takes in 512 samples from the DSP56ADC16 EVB,
applies a Blackman-Harris weighting window to the samples,
performs a 512 point fast Fourier transform, converts the
output of the transform (complex) to magnitude (scalar),
converts the scalar magnitude to log magnitude, and then
provides a calibrated serial output of the log spectrum to
the D/A for viewing on an attached oscilloscope display.
The program repeats this process over 20 times per second
to form what appears to be a "real time" power spectral
density.  This program provides 120 dB of viewable dynamic
range as well as calibration reference levels at 0, -60,
and -120 dB for calibration of the vertical scale of the
displaying oscilloscope.  This program and setup are an
excellent way of verifying the signal-to-noise (S/N) and
signal-to-total harmonic distortion (S/THD) of the
DSP56ADC16 conversion system.  This spectrum analyzer is
capable of revealing any THD in the conversion chain.  For
example, if additional signal preprocessing circuitry is
used "in front" of the DSP56ADC16 it may be checked for
S/N or S/THD degradation.  This program also allows the
designer to verify d.c. offset and overload points of the
DSP56ADC16 as well.

3.2.4.1 CONNECTION TO AN OSCILLOSCOPE

The log power spectral density generated by fftssi.lod is
viewed as a repetitive sweep on an oscilloscope attached
to BNC1.  The oscilloscope should be set for approximately
1 millisecond/div and the vertical sensitivity should be
set to .2 to .5 volts/div. See Figure 2 for setup
overview. 

3.2.4.2 OPERATION

After loading fftssi.lod into the DSP56000ADS type "go
p:$40" followed by a carriage return.  Set the scope
triggering to positive slope with AC coupling.  A spectral
display should now be present on the oscilloscope screen. 
Three "tick marks" should be visible on the lefthand side
of the scope screen.  Use the vernier vertical sensitivity
to align these marks at the top, middle, and bottom
positions of the screen as shown in Figure 3.

3.3  D.C. OFFSET ADJUSTMENT

To trim the d.c. offset of the converter install JP8, run
the FFT program described above and calibrate the
oscilloscope display with the "tick" marks as described in
3.2.4.2 above.  The first data point on the lefthand side
of the display is the d.c. term in the FFT.  Since this
value is actually the LOG of the d.c. component adjustment
will become very touchy as the d.c. offset goes to zero.
Adjust trimpot R22 to obtain a minimum d.c. value.  Keep
in mind that a d.c. level of -60 dB corresponds to
1/1000th of full scale input voltage.  Using the internal
reference of 2.0 volts -60 dB of d.c. corresponds to about
2 millivolts.

3.4  HARMONIC DISTORTION ADJUSTMENT OF A/D CONVERTER
Trimpot R21 adjusts the impedance balance between the
analog inputs BNC2 and BNC3.  A balanced input impedance
minimizes THD of the DSP56ADC16 when driven
differentially.  Recommended procedure for adjustment is
to apply a low distortion sine wave to differential inputs
BNC2 and BNC3 and run the program "fftssi.lod" as
described in 3.2.4.  While observing the 2nd and 3rd
harmonics of a 5KHz input sinewave adjust R21 for minimum
THD.  Make the adjustment slowly since the THD null will
be at one sharply defined point on the adjustment.
