Good news for STOS BASIC users !!!
----------------------------------
Since the release of the superb STOS BASIC, REPLAY users have been
in-undating  us with  requests for a BASIC routine which will work
properly with REPLAY samples.  Sadly the  routine which works with
the other BASICS won't work with STOS because we use the interrupt
structure of the ST and so does STOS. For this reason the STOSPLAY
routine uses software timed loops. We must apologise for the crude
approach that we have had to adopt to get STOS to play the game or
should I say samples? The nett result of this is,  for the moment,
sprites CAN NOT move simultaneous to the playing of a sample.   We
intend to rectify this as soon as possible, but MANDARIN refuse to
co-operate with us and tell us how we can latch into the computers
operating system such that STOS can run at the same time.  This is
particularly  annoying since  you STOS users that  contact MADARIN
are  told  that this is our problem, not theirs.  We, and you, are
caught in what is known as a vicious circle. As soon as we find an
acceptable  method,   we intend to provide a SOUND accessory which
can be loaded into RAM in the usual BASIC fashion and will provide
a set of proper BASIC commands for PLAY, FREQUENCY etc.   Assuming
that we find a way around STOS, this may still take some time.

How to use STOSPLAY.
--------------------
Copy the  contents of the  STOS folder  out onto  the top level of
your STOS working disc.  Now locate  the sample called  REPLAY.SPL
in the SAMPLES  folder and copy this onto the same STOS disc.  Now
run STOS BASIC and load in the example program.  You should now be
able to run the selected program.  Please ensure that you type NEW
when loading in another program, otherwise the RESERVED banks will
not be released and you may find yourself short of program space !

WARNING !!
----------
The program STOSPLAY.PRG must not be run from the desktop, it will
cause the computer to crash ! Please examine the demo programs for
examples of the correct use of this routine.
