Contents of the "amiga" sub-archive for UnZip 5.11 and later:

  Contents      this file
  amiga.c       Amiga-specific file I/O routines
  amiga.h       Amiga-specific header file
  filedate.c    SetFileDate() clone for OS 1.3, based on Paul Wells' utime()

  SMakeFile     SAS/C makefile for UnZip and fUnZip

  makefile.azt  Aztec C makefile for UnZip and fUnZip
  stat.c        stat() emulation for Aztec
  z-stat.h      "real" stat.h header file for Aztec
  flate.a       assembler version of inflate_codes() (define ASM_INFLATECODES)
  crc_68.a      assembler version of crc_32_tab loop (define ASM_CRC, REGARGS)

Notes:

  Both the routines, flate.a and crc_68.a, require arg passing via registers.

  To include flate.a, unzip must be built using 16-bit integers.
  (currently not possible with SAS/C)

  The DICE makefile has been removed since no one is supporting that
  compiler anymore.

  It was discovered on release of UnZip 5.1 that the latest SAS compiler
  revision (6.50 or 6.51) changed the timezone handling.   The result is
  that UnZip can extract files with the wrong times, usually off by an
  offset of a few hours which is a function of the how the TZ environment
  variable is set.  Now the TZ variable needs to be set according to the
  timezone you are in, because the tzname() function operates correctly
  now (it didn't used to).  If you do not set TZ to your current timezone,
  files will be restored with times corrsponding to CST6, which is US/Central
  time, the SAS/C default.  On the Amiga, the TZ variable cannot utilize
  the daylight savings time extentions, so don't use them.  For example,
  specify "EST5" instead of "EST5EDT".  The latter form will confuse the 
  SAS/C libraries.  To set the TZ environment variable, place the following
  line in your startup sequence:

         setenv TZ XXXN

            where XXX is the 3-character timezone notation
                    N is the offset from Greenwich mean time

  example:

         setenv TZ PST8  ; for California time
