                            Music Analyzer

                            February 1995


Music Analyzer is a little useless program for the Atari Falcon. It takes
the incoming data from the AD-Converter and uses the DSP to analyze it. This
means that it calculates a 14-band frequency spectrum for both channels.
On the screen you can also see two vu-metres and two oscilloscopes.
New in this version is the small left vs. right scope.

The program should run on all VGA monitors and RGB monitors and TVs, but on
a VGA monitor it looks much better! (no interlace)

The average screen update frequency is about 20 Hz. The speed depends a lot
of the input level. The screen update frequency is about 25 Hz when there's
no input signal at all. But then there's not much to see either :-)

In the directory SOURCE you'll find all the (assembler and pascal) sources
necessary to compile the program. (The program itself is written in full
assembler, the little pascal programs are for calculating log tables etc.)
Also included is the program to calculate the fir-filter coefficients (written
in C).

The assembler I used is the assembler in the Turbo C package. For the pascal
programs I used Pure Pascal. (Don't think I'm that rich that I can afford
these programs (I'm only a poor Physics student), but my father does some
programming too...)

Some people asked me if I couldn't let Music Analyzer run under GEM. But I
think that this will have the same effect as changing the Falcon clock
frequency from 16 to 2 MHz. But if you want to try this yourself, you can;
the sources are included :-)

Running the program under MultiTOS gives no problems (as far as I know),
it even doesn't run any slower. But you won't be able to switch task.

Well, there's not much more to say. You can use the sources for your own
programs if you like (else I wouldn't give them to you) and you may copy
the program and give it to all Falcon owners you know. Don't forget to give
them the sources too!!

For some more information start the program NOW and press HELP.

That's all

Roel van de Kraats
Beekweg 10
3881 LH  Putten
The Netherlands
email: rkraats@dds.nl
