





         MJC - AN UPDATE

         A bit of a pot-pourri this time, to round off some loose ends
         from the previous episodes and to introduce MJC 2.1, the new
         version now available on LAN.05. First of all though, can I
         put in a plea? I was amazed to hear from Mark Johnson that I
         am the only contact he's ever had outside the USA about his
         compiler. I've heard rumours before that the shareware
         concept has received poor support in Britain, but I hadn't
         realised how bad things really were. If Mark and authors like
         him are to continue making their work available they need the
         support and encouragement of users like us, and the
         availability now of 2.1 is an example of the benefits to be
         had. So don't be put off by imagined difficulties, just stick
         a fiver or a tenner in an envelope with a note saying you got
         MJC through Floppyshop and post it to:
             Mark Johnson,
             5315 Holmes Place,
             Boulder, CO
             USA 80303.
         Why not do it now?

         A bit about 2.1. Changes and enhancements include:
          - integer array initialisation
          - structure assignment
          - details on the assembler language syntax
          - extended and corrected GEM library
          - vastly extended 'standard' library (comprehensive printf,
         scanf etc.)
          - floating point support
         and
          - several aids to compilation, including a MAKE facility.
         To get all the above in a commercial product, you'd have to
         fork out ś70 or more for Lattice C, so there's no denying the
         value for money.

         There is more documentation with the product than was in
         version 1.0, but I still couldn't describe it as
         user-friendly, so the earlier articles for the 1st version,
         and the companion disk C.07,  still largely apply. I have
         revised them however in the light of the increased file
         sizes. ( The standard functions library LIB.A is three times
         larger for example, to give an idea of the extra features in
         it, and cc.ttp, the compiler itself, has grown from 40k to
         60k.) I had almost despaired of fitting a simple working
         environment on a half-meg ST when I discovered MAXIDISC  - a
         compressing RAM disk. This allows the necessary 230k or so of
         files to fit in a 180k RAM disk with room left over for work
         space.

         Otherwise the mix is much as before. The new C.07 contains a
         bootable environment for C development, less the compiler and
         linker (cc.ttp and as.ttp respectively) which you will need
         to copy into the COMPILER folder from LAN.05, and lib.c, to
         be copied from the LIBS folder. These have been left out to
         give space for documentation and for sample programs, which
         this time include a desk accessory and a GEM program with a
         resource file.

         To begin at the beginning, then. Start by un-ARCing LAN.05.
         When unpacked it contains about 400k of files, so you'll
         probably need to store it on two s/s disks. The updated
         version of my earlier articles (stored as ARTICLE1 on
         C.07) contains a list of the files and folders needed on a
         boot disk - all of which, with the exceptions noted above,
         are on C.07 - so format another disk and copy as necessary.
         If you only have a s/s drive you'll find you only have 33k of
         free space left on the disk, so you'll need to replace the
         boot disk with a working disc after you've entered the shell
         and run COLDGO; this working disk need only contain
         DESKTOP.INF, COMMAND2.TOS and WARMGO.BAT to allow you to
         re-enter the development environment after test runs etc.
         If you own a double-sided drive you'll have plenty of space
         left on your boot disk of course; I myself have a
         double-sided drive B and use this as my boot device with a
         'boot-from-B' program on drive A. Note that if you do this
         you'll need to copy MAXIDISK.INF onto A. If you've got a hard
         disk I'm envious.

         The development process with 2.1 is much as it was with the
         previous version. I haven't mastered 'make' yet, so I've
         carried forward versions of the mkp and mkt shell scripts
         used in 1.0 and the sample programs include examples of each
         type. DDD.ttp was rewritten to take advantage of the extra
         features in 2.1 'printf', which has resulted in shorter and
         simpler source but a larger object size - inevitable, I'm
         afraid. The GEM program WINDO.prg, which is an extended
         version of the 'SAMPLE' program on the UK language disc,
         shows not only multiple window handling but also the use of a
         resource file. This was created using K-RESOURCE (the old
         version), which I can thoroughly recommend. I had hoped to
         include a more comprehensive example of window-handling with
         sliders etc., but the program I was working on has fallen
         foul of what appears to be a bug. I have a suspicion that MJC
         incorrectly declares its memory requirements to TOS when
         initialising (via the SETBLOCK function). In fairness though,
         I haven't yet proved this to be the case, and the problem
         would only affect programs which use Malloc for dynamic store
         acquisition while executing. I'll keep readers posted on
         progress.

         An extra facility I've added to 2.1 is provided by MKA.BAT;
         this is the ability to create desk accessories. Folder RAMACC
         contains the source of a (very) simple accessory to display
         free memory. It does however show the basic layout of an
         accessory for those with ambitions in this direction. Note
         that to successfully compile an accessory you MUST have ACC.S
         and GEM.A from C.07 - it's not included in LAN.05.

         An area I promised to cover was that of adding missing GEM
         functions, of which there are several. I have added some
         myself, in particular those related to resource files and
         desk accessories, plus a few corrections to existing
         functions, and the source is in GEM.C in the LIBRARY.SRC
         folder on C.07. If you want to do this, you will need a
         source of information for the functions you require. The
         'Atari ST GEM Programmers Reference' is the most readable and
         descriptive; unfortunately it seems in places to have been
         proof-read by an orang-outan. The 'Concise ST Reference
         Guide' from Glentop has a greater air of authority, but its
         style varies between cryptic and obscure. Like me, you'll
         probably find you need both.

         The GEM.A library is simply a renamed yc.out file created by
         executing cc on the C source held in GEM.C, so to add a new
         entry you edit the source. As an example we'll add appl_read,
         which is used to read event messages sent to you by another
         application - and no, I can't think why you would need it.
         Copy GEM.C from the LIBRARY folder on C.07 onto your work
         disc, and enter 'me gem.c'. The obvious place to insert the
         new code is near the related event-handling functions, so
         move down to 'appl_write' using the F7 search string
         facility. The Programmers Reference tells us the function
         declaration:

         appl_read(id, len, buff) char *buff; {

         Note that ints are taken for granted in C, so there's no need
         to declare id or len, or to say that appl_read returns an
         int. The data arrays used to communicate with VDI/AES are
         declared at the start of the source; control[0] as ct0,
         intin[0] as ii0, addrin[0] as ai0 and so on. So, again from
         the Programmers Reference:

         ct0 = 11;
         ct1 = 2;
         ct2 = ct3 = 1;
         ct4 = 0;
         ii0 = id;
         ii1 = len;
         ai0 = buff;

         The way into the AES now is by a trap instruction, but Mark
         Johnson has made all this easy for us by including an AES
         call in the library source; so:

         aes();

         (At this point its worth noting that libraries are only
         passed once by the linking process, so anything you call in a
         library function must follow it in the source file - the
         aes() and vdi() functions are at the end of GEM.C for a good
         reason, don't put things after them.) The result code from
         appl_read is returned in intout[0], so:

         return(io0);
         }
         and end the edit. To compile the new library version, type in
         the following command:
         cc -ogem.a gem.c
         but, PLEASE, do keep backups of your original GEM.C and GEM.A
         in case you make a mess of things. I should also have pointed
         out that you will need to copy the LAN.05 version of the
         GEM.H file to your work disk; it contains some structure
         declarations needed to compile the library successfully.

         As a parting shot, I did mention at the start of these
         articles the use of sprites with MJC. The SPRITES folder
         contains a file sprite.a, which is an MJC library for three
         of the line-A routines ( init_linea, draw_sprite and
         erase_sprite). I produced this before Mark Johnson published
         details of his assembler format, so the code was produced the
         hard way; written in standard 68000 Assembler, hand-assembled
         into hex, and then translated to decimal to suit MJC. (You
         will appreciate why I didn't go on to implement the entire
         set of line-A calls!). There is an example program in the
         folder showing the use of these calls - the other info you
         will need is the format of a sprite definition block, which
         you'll find in 'ST Internals' or the 'Concise Guide'. This
         code was largely cribbed from issue 32 of PAGE 6 magazine, so
         if you can lay your hands on this you'll find more details
         there.

         That about wraps it up for now; if you have queries or
         comments on any of the above, why not drop me a line?

         TERRY BILLANY

























