
	Being a list of known/unknown Fnordadel bugs/problems

	'???' indicates something strange going on
	'x.yy-z' indicates a fix applied in that version

 90Jul31
	- OUT OF INTERNAL MEMORY; USE FOLDR100 TO GET MORE MIMERY!
	- [B]lock replace is bus; unique start string and non-unique end
	  string; say "NO!" to first match -- searching mysteriously stops.

 90Aug04
1.30-12	- When moving a public message to Mail>, no recipient is prompted for.
	  Also, a copy of the message appears in Aide>.
	  [ Temp. fix: disallow moving to Mail> ]

 90Dec27
	- .EXM fargs up messages that contains CRs only.  It should behave like
	  [F]ile-grab, and properly convert CRs to \n.

 91Jan27
  ???	- A few characters of system output (usually room name prompt) get
	  gobbled upon return from a door.
	- How does our code handle file-grabbing in anon. rooms? - POORLY
  ???	- Something caused extended commands to be interpreted as single-key
	  commands on secret.  The prefix was ignored.  Could be +backup?

 91Feb04
	- We've probably gots tons o' utilities that open lock files before
	  having done a readSysTab().

 91Apr10
1.32-16	- When an incoming net-file fills up all available space, things die.
	  No error messages get generated.
	- When a net-mail transfer screws up, the sending node may mark the
	  mail as 'sent', even though the receiving node didn't get the mail.

 91Apr21
  ???	- Zair TL reports there are unexplained long pauses after a user answers
	  'Y' to 'enter as new user' but before system asks for confirmation of
	  user name & password.

 91May02
  ???	- Darren Boucher reports that loading GFA Basic or 1st Word Plus from
	  gulam, and then running Fnordadel (without exitting gulam) and
	  using a door that passes a user-name parameter, causes a couple of
	  garbage chars to be tacked onto the end of the user-name.

 91May22
	- ^C and/or keyboard buffer overflow can blow the system away.  It
	  happens for sure after a file transfer times out, and at the room
	  prompt.  Might have something to do with the status line update code.

 91May26
	- Remove redundant parsepath() calls.
	- outspaces() is probably farging up when it does oChar(' '), 'cause
	  it doesn't do column++.

 91May31
	- Add new cfg flags to citpeek display.

 91Jun09
  ???	- .TP may be broken for newish users (< 8 calls).  Report by kbad.
	- ;R doesn't appear to work at all.  Remove "extern char floorhook" in
	  room.c.  Add code to doread.c to make ;R do something.
	- Also, nextroom() in room.c can't be working as it sits, since it uses
	  floorhook, but that flag is never set anywhere.  [Could be for old
	  ;RG, since new ;R sets floorhook, and readglobal() calls nextroom().]

 91Jun24
	- Make citfs.tos work with node names that contain spaces.
	- Make clog.tos work with user names that contain spaces (do substr?).

 91Aug04
	- Fix more mode [B]ackup to use OUTBACKUP, not kludged OUTAGAIN.

 91Aug24
	- When you change the name of a net node, if there are any room alias'
	  defined, there should be some kind of warning.
	- Modem stuff (e.g. calllog.sys and download time estimates) are
	  screwed up by port-locking for high speed modems.

 91Aug30
	- Under some weird circumstances, the basefloor name disappears.
	  Happened to Mr. N (an exit and restart fixed things) and bill.k
	  (not even reconfigure seemed to help).

 91Sep02 (Some bugs merged in from a separate list)

	- Killing a room or making it unshared does not auto-unshare all
	  nodes from the room.
	- Problem with killing a Node, and not unsharing the rooms first.
	- enter mail to node a.ab.c causes .c to be truncated.
	- In pathalias.sys, doing a <nodename1><tab><nodename2> to create a
	  local alias causes mail to <nodename1> to fail.  E.g., if there is
	  an alias 'foobar<tab>rt', mail to Sysop@foobar is converted by
	  something into mail to 'rt!sysop@rt', where the first 'rt' is
	  expanded from pathalias.sys, and the second 'rt' is taken from the
	  primary node list.
